Some suggestions to round out the performance advice (#2192)
isocpp/CppCoreGuidelines: CppCoreGuidelines.md

* [Per.19: Access memory predictably](#Rper-access)
* [Per.30: Avoid context switches on the critical path](#Rper-context)

### <a name="Rper-reason"></a>Per.1: Understand your requirements and design accordingly.

##### Reason

C++ is not the most common choice for situations with no performance demands at

> all, but performance demands are not equal to each other.  Before you can make

Reviewer: ```suggestion
all, but not all performance demands are the same.  Before you can make
```

any sensible choices you should understand what success looks like in your own
domain.  Your requirements likely include some of binary size, latency,

> predictability, power, egress, and perhaps other more unique metrics.  What your

Reviewer: Something is unique or it isn't, it can't be more unique.

Author: changed unique to exotic.

Author: Also thank  you for reading my suggestions and comments.

Reviewer: > Everything is unique in the absolute sense but that is only interesting for a conversation over drinks. It isn't good writing.

I'm not going to argue with that :-)

needs are can and should color the choices you make.  You will likely not be able
to "optimize" your way to success if your major choices are actually totally unsuitable
for your goals.  The best practice is to make a sketch of what you indend to do,
however complex or simple, and then ask yourself "is this likely to meet my needs?"
If it is, proceed. If it isn't, dig a little more, understand which things will matter

> and invest and or experiment accordingly. When you have a plan that holds water

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and invest and/or experiment accordingly. When you have a plan that holds water
```

possibly afford, or completely disregarding a key metric either.  Regularly 
verifying that you are on track is never premature.

Don Knuth popularized this quote by Tony Hoare, in full "We should forget about
small efficiencies, say about 97% of the time: premature optimization is the
root of all evil."

[Small efficiencies can wait 97% of the time](https://ubiquity.acm.org/article.cfm?id=1513451#:~:text=Trying%20to%20do%20the%20optimization,best%20practice%20among%20software%20engineers.).
Reasonable choices that give you a good chance of success cannot wait.  If you
believe Sir Hoare -- which is wise -- 3% of the time small choices will burn you. That's
about 1 or 2 per screenful of code.

### <a name="Rper-critical"></a>Per.3: Consider the causes of performance problems, not the effects.

##### Reason

Time is secondary metric.  Large time values are an effect of either bad
orchestration, large resource consumption (read too much, use an O(N^2)
algorithm instead of an O(N) alorigthm), or inefficient use of a resource (i.e.
asking it to do something it's bad at, such as seeking all over, or dealing with
non-local memory access).  Typically secondary metrics like time are not

> probative -- "the code is slow, boo hoo" -- primary metrics like "how many

Reviewer: Probative is not a common word, I would find an alternative way to say this that will be more easily understood.

Author: reworded

are likely to be very excited about reducing cycles by 50% even if your customers
already think the system is fast enough.  Cycles are cost.

Whatever your system may be, referring back to your needs and your customer
needs will tell you where you should be investing and which investments are
worthwhile. At some point, the potential benefits are not worth the opportunity
cost of doing them.  An extra 10% reduction of download size maybe isn't worth
the engineering time because you've reached a size that is small enough that
your customers no longer notice the difference.  But if your needs also include
egress costs for those downloads then maybe that same 10% is worth it.  The very
same potential improvement might be a great a idea or a silly one depending on
your needs.

### <a name="Rper-simple"></a>Per.4: Simpler is generally better

Assuming you have done the basics of making sure that your overall design is approximately right,
such as you are using O(N) if it is available rather than O(N^2) or something like that then you'll
find that *simplifying* code and data is the best way to make things faster.  This means:

* don't create complex inheritance graphs

> * don't use complicate dispatch logic if simple logic will do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* don't use complicate dispatch logic if simple logic will do
```

Author: changed to complicated.

Reviewer: Oops, that's what I was trying to suggest but apparently failed to do! I shouldn't do reviews on my phone before breakfast.

* don't make data structures with lots of pointers
* don't use shared pointers if unique pointers will do
* don't use patterns that reduce your average code and data density

In short, consider the problem you need to solve and solve it as directly as you reasonably can.
Don't completely focus on just your immediate needs, some future-proofing is usually necessary, but
don't ruin the code by over-generalizing it either.  Remember that in order to be *re*-usable code
has to first be *usable*.

This is a bit contentious but in practice, object oriented programming generally
results in the worst performance. Consider work-oriented programming instead.
What has to happen, how do we do this clearly, simply, directly, with only as
much abstraction as would be helpful.

Arrays/vectors are probably the most under-utilized and most important data structure.  Use
simple proven data structures a lot.

### <a name="Rper-measure"></a>Per.5: Don't make claims about performance without measurements

##### Reason

> The field of performance is littered with myth and bogus folklore.  My favorite aphorism,

Reviewer: Best to avoid writing in the first person in a document with many authors.

Author: I'm too used to blogging.  Thank you.

Author: replaced with something 3rd person.  Though I'm quoting myself now... Maybe it's not even worth the aphorism at all.  I would not be too sad if you asked me to delete it entirely.

"If you're very good at software performance engineering you're only wrong about 95% of the time."

Modern hardware and optimizers defy naive assumptions; even experts are regularly surprised.

> Measure. Experiment. Verify.  Accept or disgard in a passionless way.  Repeat as needed.  When needed.

Reviewer: Discard?

Author: fixed

Remember you will not have any idea what you should measure if you don't at least understand your needs.
Don't focus on CPU usage per transaction if what matters to you is download size.

### <a name="Rper-efficiency"></a>Per.6: Design to enable optimization

##### Reason

We prefer to start with a design that has, shall we say, the right "shape" from the outset.  But this leaves
many factors to resolve later.  Those small efficiencies Hoare mentioned, 97% of which we can ignore.  The
3% might kill us.  We don't want to have to redo everything to plug in those few bits that could wait.

These should not change the overall shape of your design.  We really want to start with something that

> is substantially likely to work from the outset.  But you can defer a lot of choices of you make your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is substantially likely to work from the outset.  But you can defer a lot of choices if you make your
```

a disk access,
and a message through a network.

Understand the basic costs associated with the most common data types.

> integers, pointers, std::string, std::shared_ptr, std::unique_pointer.  It's hard to make a good design

Reviewer: ```suggestion
integers, pointers, `std::string`, `std::shared_ptr`, `std::unique_ptr`.  It's hard to make a good design
```

cycles to allocate and free the memory as well.

### <a name="Rper-alloc0"></a>Per.15: Do not allocate on a critical branch

Allocation has non-trivial cost.  Many important data structures (e.g. btree) have
a low number of allocations on average.

### <a name="Rper-compact"></a>Per.16: Use compact data structures

##### Reason

Performance is often dominated by the number of memory access rather than number of instructions.
A single cache miss can easily cost you the equivalent of 150 normal instructions.  Even if
there is a marginal increase in computation cost, a dense data structure can readily pay for
itself.

### <a name="Rper-struct"></a>Per.17: Declare the most used member of a time-critical struct first

??? The real advice here is to think about locality, putting the most used member first doesn't
help a whit in general.  Splitting things into hot and cold can help. If you have a structure
that is 3 cache lines and you put all the hot data on any one of them that is likely to help.
It doesn't matter which one.

### <a name="Rper-space"></a>Per.18: Space is time

##### Reason

Performance is typically dominated by memory access times.

> ??? seems kind of redunant with the above

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? seems kind of redundant with the above
```
